Blogpost about traefik / subdomain (#349)
ddev/ddev.com: src/content/blog/ddev-expose-node-app-on-subdomain.md

over ports 80 and 443 on a custom subdomain? While DDEV has built-in mechanisms for exposing additional ports, 
sometimes you need more control, especially if you want to expos it through a domain like 
`frontend.example.ddev.site` instead of a port-specific URL. This is where Traefik, bundled with DDEV, 
becomes incredibly powerful.

In this post, we’ll walk through how to configure DDEV and Traefik to proxy requests from a subdomain directly 
to your Node.js app on port 3000 within the DDEV web container.

---

## Why Not Just Use `web_extra_exposed_ports`

DDEV's'`web_extra_exposed_ports` feature is great for making your service accessible via a specific port 
(e.g., (`3000`)). However, it doesn’t magically set up a subdomain for you to use on standard web ports (80/443). 
If you want `frontend.example.ddev.site` to map to your Node.js app over HTTPS, you need a reverse proxy rule. 
That’s where Traefik comes in.

## Step 1: Update Your `.ddev/config.yaml`

In your project’s `.ddev/config.yaml`, define the project name and the additional hostname you want to use. For example:

> ```

Reviewer: Code blocks like this need language identifier:

````suggestion
```yaml
````

name: example

additional_hostnames:
  - frontend.example

```
_(Optional)_ You can still use web_extra_exposed_ports to expose the Node.js port if you want:
```
web_extra_exposed_ports:
- name: node-app
  container_port: 3000
  http_port: 3000
  https_port: 3001
```
However, for a subdomain over standard web ports, the critical part is the next step with Traefik.

## Step 2: Create a Traefik Configuration File

Inside your `.ddev` folder, create a subdirectory called `traefik/config` (if it doesn’t exist), 
and add a file named `frontend.yaml`:

In `frontend.yaml`, you’ll define two routers—one for HTTP (port 80) and one for HTTPS (port 443)—and 
a service that points to the Node.js app on port 3000.
```
http:
  routers:
    # Router for HTTP (port 80)
    example-web-80-http-frontend:
      entrypoints:
        - http-80

>       rule: HostRegexp(`^frontend\.example\.ddev\.site$`)

Reviewer: We probably can simplify this for better readability and understanding:

```suggestion
      rule: Host(`frontend.example.ddev.site`)
```

---
title: "Exposing a Node.js App Over HTTP / HHTPS on a Subdomain in DDEV"
pubDate: 2025-04-10
#modifiedDate: 2025-04-07
summary: Serve a Node.js app on a dedicated subdomain over HTTP/HTTPS using DDEV’s Traefik.
author: J. Minder
featureImage:
  src: /img/blog/2025/04/ddev-router-traeffik.png
  alt: Screenshot of DDEV router and Traefik running on a `.ddev.site` domain in a browser window
  shadow: true
categories:
  - DevOps
---

# Exposing a Node.js App Over 80/443 on a Subdomain in DDEV

Have you ever needed to run a separate Node.js application alongside your main site in DDEV, and serve it securely
over ports 80 and 443 on a custom subdomain? While DDEV has built-in mechanisms for exposing additional ports,
sometimes you need more control, especially if you want to expos it through a domain like
`frontend.example.ddev.site` instead of a port-specific URL. This is where Traefik, bundled with DDEV,
becomes incredibly powerful.

In this post, we’ll walk through how to configure DDEV and Traefik to proxy requests from a subdomain directly
to your Node.js app on port 3000 within the DDEV web container.

---

## Why Not Just Use `web_extra_exposed_ports`

> DDEV's'`web_extra_exposed_ports` feature is great for making your service accessible via a specific port

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DDEV's' [`web_extra_exposed_ports` feature](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/users/extend/customization-extendibility/#exposing-extra-ports-via-ddev-router) is great for making your service accessible via a specific port
```

(e.g., (`3000`)). However, it doesn’t magically set up a subdomain for you to use on standard web ports (80/443).
If you want `frontend.example.ddev.site` to map to your Node.js app over HTTPS, you need a reverse proxy rule.
That’s where Traefik comes in.

## Step 1: Update Your `.ddev/config.yaml`

In your project’s `.ddev/config.yaml`, define the project name and the additional hostname you want to use. For example:

```yaml
name: example

additional_hostnames:
  - frontend.example
```

_(Optional)_ You can still use web_extra_exposed_ports to expose the Node.js port if you want:

```
web_extra_exposed_ports:
- name: node-app
  container_port: 3000
  http_port: 3000
  https_port: 3001
```

However, for a subdomain over standard web ports, the critical part is the next step with Traefik.

## Step 2: Create a Traefik Configuration File

> Inside your `.ddev` folder, create a subdirectory called `traefik/config` (if it doesn’t exist),
> and add a file named `frontend.yaml`:

Reviewer 2: The directory always exists.

```suggestion
In your project's  `.ddev/traefik/config` folder add a file named `frontend.yaml`:
```

    example-web-3000:
      loadbalancer:
        servers:
          - url: http://ddev-example-web:3000

```

Here’s what’s happening:

- Routers: Each router inspects incoming requests. If the hostname matches `frontend.example.ddev.site`, it passes the request to the `example-web-3000` service.
- Service: Defines where to actually send the traffic. In this case, `http://ddev-example-web:3000` is the internal address of the web container running on port 3000.

## Step 3: Restart DDEV

Run:

```bash
ddev restart
```

DDEV will pick up your new Traefik configuration, and you should now be able to access your Node.js application at:

```text
https://frontend.example.ddev.site
```

No more messing with non-standard port numbers in your URLs!

---

## Wrapping Up

By leveraging Traefik's routing capabilities, you can expose any service running in the web container on standard HTTP/HTTPS ports and map it to a dedicated subdomain. This approach keeps your development environment clean, user-friendly, and closer to production-like URLs.

If you’ve followed these steps, your Node.js application will be served seamlessly over `frontend.example.ddev.site`.

---

**Further Reading**

> - [DDEV Router Customization and Debugging (Traefik)](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/users/extend/traefik-router/#traefik-configuration)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DDEV Router Customization and Debugging (Traefik)](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/users/extend/traefik-router/#traefik-configuration)
- [Traefik Proxy Docs](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/)

**Do You Have a Favorite DDEV Recipe? Contribute It!**

We welcome community contributions to the DDEV blog and would love to have yours. The [ddev.com repository](https://github.com/ddev/ddev.com) has full details, and there's even a [training session on how to do it](https://ddev.com.ddev.site/blog/ddev-website-for-contributors/). It's all just markdown and we'll help!
```
